Hi I'm邱弈瑞from NYCU. So this is a simulation work on the population dynamics of bacteria. Do you guys know biofilm? It’s basically a cluster where bacteria live together. It’s an important idea because biofilm is the major mode of bacterial life. So basically most of the bacteria in nature live with others and form biofilm. This is an electron microscopy image of biofilm. The spheres here are bacterial cells, and the substances that encase the cells are called extracellular polymeric substances or simply EPS. They are made up of polymers such as polysaccharides and proteins, and they are all secreted by bacteria in the same biofilm. So the major components of biofilm are cells and EPS. OK. And It’s interesting that sometimes there can be more than one species in a biofilm, so complex interactions may happen in a biofilm. And indeed, in nature, there are interactions between bacteria such as cooperation and antagonism where different species fight with each other. These interactions are pervasive so people want to know how they form. My work focus on one of the major cooperative interactions, which is cross-feeding. Cross-feeding can be found everywhere like in water, soil, and even in human intestine. So what is cross-feeding? This is cross-feeding (point to the picture). Basically two species form a cross-feeding pair. Species one secrete a nutrient that species two cannot synthesis; and similarly species two secrete a nutrient that species one cannot synthesis. There are chances that some bacteria mutate into cheaters. Cheater is the individual that does not secrete any nutrient but consume the nutrient secreted by others. In fact secretion of nutrient require cost. It takes energy to synthesize chemicals. So, cheaters in theory have growth advantage over these guys, or cross-feeders. So cheaters seem to have the edge. But why can cross-feeding still exist in nature instead of wiped out by cheater? This is a central question in microbial ecology. As a result, here we tried to answer how cross-feeders (point to the picture) resist cheaters so that they are able to persist. We noticed that there are no paper discussing the roles of EPS (point to the picture) in cross-feeding system. So in this study we tested whether EPS have any effect on the cross-feeder in the presence of cheater. We used an open-source engineering biofilm simulator to perform agent-based simulations. EPS and cells are simulated as particles in the simulations. These are the models used in the simulations. We have physical forces, growth models we developed for cross-feeders and cheaters, and reaction-diffusion equations of chemical concentration. We simulated the situation where cheaters have advantage so they outcompete cross-feeders (point to the graph), and we found that when we had cross-feeders secrete EPS and cheaters don’t, the survival time was elongated. And we tried the simulation 50 times with different set of random seed, and did the statistics of their survival time. We found that the survival time elongation was statistically significant (p is very small here). So all in all, our work suggests that higher EPS secretion of cross-feeders than cheaters may help cross-feeders to survive. And this might be a way cross-feeders resist cheater in nature. Next we will do further simulation and experimental validation. 

(t=10000s (~3hr))
